LLMEval - Project to run evaluations on a LLM (#49)
dotnet/ai-samples: src/llm-eval/README.md

# Evaluating a LLM with .NET

> This repo contains a library and samples for evaluating the output of an LLM, similar to what we  uses in a RAG architecture. There are many parameters that affect the quality and style of answers generated by a chat app, such as the system prompt, search parameters, and GPT model parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repo contains a library and samples for evaluating the output of an LLM, similar to what we use in a RAG architecture. There are many parameters that affect the quality and style of answers generated by a chat app, such as the system prompt, search parameters, and model parameters.
```

> This repository offers tools and samples to make it easier to run evaluations on Large Language Models.

Reviewer: Is this a duplicate? If so, I'd recommend going with the first version.

Author: Yes, thanks. Keeping the 1st one.

Table of contents:

* [Setting up this project](#setting-up-this-project)
* [Models to test, to evaluate and to generate data](#Models-to-test,-to-evaluate-and-to-generate-data)
* [Generating ground truth data](#Generate-a-QA-from-a-Topic)
* [Running an evaluation](#running-an-evaluation)
* [Viewing the results](#viewing-the-results)

> The sample console application includes several uses cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample console application includes several uses cases:
```

> - Generate and eval a QA using a LLM
> - Eval 2 harcoded QAs
> - Eval a harcoded User Story
> - Eval a List of User Stories loaded from a file
> - Generate and Eval a list of QAs using a LLM
> - Type a topic to generate a QA and eval the QA
> - Type the QA to be evaluated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generate and evaluate a QAs using a LLM
- Evaluate 2 harcoded QAs
- Evaluate a harcoded User Story
- Batch evaluate a list of User Stories loaded from a file
- Generate and evaluate a list of QAs using a LLM
- Manually generate a QA and eval the QA
- Manually evaluate the QA 
```

Reviewer: Consider spelling out (i.e. Question-Answer Pairs or Questions and Answers (QA))

This is a sample of an user typing a QA, the test model generating the answer for the QA, and the **LLMEval.Core** library performing the eval.

![Generated QA from topic using the GenKernel](img/01%20type%20QA.gif)

In this sample, a list of User stories are loaded from a file, and the **LLMEval.Core** library performing the eval process.

![Generated QA from topic using the GenKernel](img/02%20list%20of%20User%20Stories.gif)

## Setting up this project

If you open this project in a Dev Container or GitHub Codespaces, it will automatically set up the environment for you.
If not, then follow these steps:

> 1. Install .NET 8 or higher
> 2. Install Visual Studio 2022 or Visual Studio Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install [.NET 8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) or higher
2. Install [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) or [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)
```

// ========================================
var kernelEval = KernelFactory.CreateKernelEval();
var kernelTest = KernelFactory.CreateKernelEval();
var kernelGenData = KernelFactory.CreateKernelGenerateData();
```

### Creating Kernels for Azure OpenAI Services or OpenAI APIs

You can use .NET User Secrets to store the necessary information to create the kernels. In example run these commands in bash to store the information related to an Azure OpenAI Service Endpoint:

```bash
dotnet user-secrets init
dotnet user-secrets set "AZURE_OPENAI_MODEL" "Azure OpenAI Deployment Name"
dotnet user-secrets set "AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT" "Azure OpenAI Deployment Endpoint"
dotnet user-secrets set "AZURE_OPENAI_KEY" "Azure OpenAI Deployment Key"
```

Now the KernelFactory class can create a kernel with the following code:

```csharp
public static Kernel CreateKernelEval()
{
    var config = new ConfigurationBuilder().AddUserSecrets<Program>().Build();

    var builder = Kernel.CreateBuilder();

    builder.AddAzureOpenAIChatCompletion(
        config["AZURE_OPENAI_MODEL"],
        config["AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT"],
        config["AZURE_OPENAI_KEY"]);

    return builder.Build();
}
```

> To learn more about Project Secrets in Development * [Project Secrets in Development](#https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=windows)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, see the [Project Secrets in Development guidance](#https://learn.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=windows)
```

> ### Creating Kernels to access Open Source LLMs, like Llama 3 or Phi-3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating Kernels to access Open Source LLMs, like Phi-3 or Llama 3 
```

Semantic Kernel also allows the access to any model that supports the [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/openai.md). 

> The following example creates a kernel using a Llama 3 model deployed and hosted locally using ollama. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a kernel using a Llama 3 model deployed and hosted locally using Ollama. 
```

```csharp
public static Kernel CreateKernelEval()
{
    var config = new ConfigurationBuilder().AddUserSecrets<Program>().Build();

    var builder = Kernel.CreateBuilder();

        builder.AddOpenAIChatCompletion(

>             modelId: "llama3",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            modelId: "phi3",
```

            endpoint: new Uri("http://localhost:11434"),
            apiKey: "api");

    return builder.Build();
}
```

> This blog explains how to host a local LLM using ollama, [Llama 3](https://ollama.com/blog/llama3)

Reviewer: Consider replacing the link here to the local models sample.

Author: Done!

2. Use the generator class to generate a set of questions and answers. This is the fastest, but may also be the least accurate. 
3. Use the generator class to generate a set of questions and answers, and then manually curate them, rewriting any answers that are subpar and adding missing citations. This is a good middle ground, and is what we recommend.

<details>
 <summary>Additional tips for ground truth data generation</summary>

* Generate more QA pairs than you need, then prune them down manually based on quality and overlap. Remove low quality answers, and remove questions that are too similar to other questions.
* Be aware of the knowledge distribution in the document set, so you effectively sample questions across the knowledge space.
* Once your chat application is live, continually sample live user questions (within accordance to your privacy policy) to make sure you're representing the sorts of questions that users are asking.

</details>

## Generate a QA from a Topic

This repo includes a set of libraries to process and generate questions and answers from a specific topic.

> The following code is part of the main program, in the console application and show how to generate a QA from a topic. Each QA have a field for the question, the answer and the topic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code is part of the main program, in the console application and shows how to generate a QA from a topic. Each QA has a field for the question, the answer and the topic. 
```

    "Topic": "History"
},
{
    "Question": "What is the formula to calculate the area of a circle?",
    "Answer": "The formula to calculate the area of a circle is A = \u03C0r^2, where A is the area and r is the radius of the circle.",
    "Topic": "Math"
},
{
    "Question": "Who is the author of the book \u0027To Kill a Mockingbird\u0027?",
    "Answer": "Harper Lee",
    "Topic": "Literature"
}
```

## Running an evaluation

Once a QA or a collection of QAs is available, the EvalLLM library can run the evaluation against the collection. The following image shows the console output of 2 different evaluated QAs.

![2 hardcoded QAs evaluated](img/402QAEvalComplete.png)

This the necessary code to run the eval of a QA:
```csharp
var qaProcessor = new QACreator.QACreator(kernelTest);
var qa = new QA
{
    Question = "two plus two",
    Answer = "'4' or 'four'",
    Topic = "Math"
};

var processResult = await qaProcessor.Process(qa);
var results = await batchEval.ProcessSingle(processResult);
results.EvalRunName = "Harcoded QA 1";
SpectreConsoleOutput.DisplayResults(results);
```

> ### Specifying the evaluate metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Specifying the evaluation metrics
```

The **LLMEval.Core** class will use the metrics specified while creating the object. These metrics are custom metrics that we've added based on the python sample: [Evaluating a RAG Chat App
](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ai-rag-chat-evaluator/tree/main).

The following code shows how to add the 3 main custom evaluators:

- coherence
- groundedness
- relevance
- lenght

```csharp
// ========================================
// create LLMEval and add evaluators
// ========================================
var kernelEvalFunctions = kernelEval.CreatePluginFromPromptDirectory("Prompts");
var batchEval = new Core.LLMEval();

batchEval
    .AddEvaluator(new PromptScoreEval("coherence", kernelEval, kernelEvalFunctions["coherence"]))
    .AddEvaluator(new PromptScoreEval("groundedness", kernelEval, kernelEvalFunctions["groundedness"]))
    .AddEvaluator(new PromptScoreEval("relevance", kernelEval, kernelEvalFunctions["relevance"]))
    .AddEvaluator(new LenghtEval());

> batchEval.SetMeterId("llama3");

Reviewer: Consider using Phi-3

Author: Done

```

> #### Built-in metrics

Reviewer: The distinction between built-in and custom metrics is a little confusing here. It sounds like Built-in is something that AI Studio provides built-in metrics and the ones we use here are the custom metrics. If that's the case, since custom metrics are the ones that are provided, I'd recommend moving those above built-in.

Author: I got the idea. I changed the approach to be:
1st explanation of the current implemented metrics
2nd small overview of Azure AI Studio Metrics, as reference
